In the previous video, we
already create topology 2 router.
Next in this video, we are going
to learn how to configure BGP.
I already explain that BGP is used to connecting
between autonomous system, so here we will have 2
autonomous system, let’s say router 1 is autonomous
system 1, and router 2 is autonomous system 2.
Let’s just start, let’s start with
router 1, enable, configure terminal,
and then router bgp question mark, here we can see
that we need to define autonomous system number.
We use 1 here, because router 1
is in autonomous system 1.
Next, we need to define a neighbor. In
this case, router 1 will connect to router 2,
so the neighbor will be router 2,
the command is neighbor, and then the ip address
of the neighbor, in this case 10.10.10.2,
then remote-as, here we need to define the
autonomous system number of the neighbor,
in this case, router 2 is in autonomous
system 2, so the remote as is 2.
Next, we can advertise the connected network,
so here we will advertise 10.10.10.0/30
and 192.168.1.0/24, let’s start, network 10.10.10.0
and then mask, here we will need a subnetmask,
this is different with ospf, in ospf
we need to define wildcard bits.
Question mark here, here we
can see that the description
is network mask, so this is subnetmask.
For /30, the subnetmask is 255.255.255.252.
Next let’s advertise 192.168.1.0, so
network 192.168.1.0 mask 255.255.255.0.
Okay now we have done configuring BGP on router1.
Next let’s configure on router 2, enable, configure
terminal, router bgp 2, this is means that router 2
is in autonomous system 2. Next let’s define
the neighbor, the neighbor will be router 1.
So neighbor 10.10.10.1, and then the autonomous
system of router 1 is 1, so remote-as 1.
Here we can see a message that the bgp is up.
Next, let’s advertise the connected network,
network 10.10.10.0 mask 255.255.255.252,
And then network 192.168.2.0 mask 255.255.255.0.
Okay now we have done configuring
bgp on router 1 and router 2,
let’s verify it, do show ip bgp summary,
Here we can see that we have neighbor 10.10.10.1,
the state is number 4, this is means how
many prefix that received from the neighbor.
If the bgp is not up, the status will be active.
Okay, let’s also check on
router 1, do show ip bgp summary,
here we can see that the status is also 4, this is
means that router 1 receive 4 network from router 2.
Let’s check the routing table, do show
ip route, here we can see that router 1
have route to 192.168.2.0/24, which is the
network of pc 2, the label is B, B is means BGP.
Let’s also check routing table on router 2, do
show ip route, here we can see that router 2
also have a route to pc 1, and the
label is also B, this is means BGP.
Now let’s test ping from pc 1 to pc 2,
the first packet is failed, let’s
test again, okay here success.
Okay so now we have done
configuring bgp on 2 router.
I think enough for this video, in the next video,
we are going to add 1 router to our topology.
Thankyou for watching and
see you on the next video.